Hello, everyone! Um, welcome again to
the WordPress Accessibility Day 2020.
My name is Roberto Remedios and I live in
San Jose, Costa Rica. I'm a web developer
and also user experience, and user interface
designer, uh I'm a accessibility advocate,
organizer of accessibility here in Costa Rica.
Our next speaker will be Rian Rietveld,
and she will be talking about the,
how to use the ARIA standard in
forms. Um, Rian is a web accessibility
specialist in a full-service workers agency,
Level Level and a trainer at the A11y Collective,
so thank you very much, thank you very
much. [Rian] Thank you for having me! Yeah,
okay, I have a pre-recorded talk. I will
explain why and I will share my screen now.
Okay, here we go.
[Roberto] Sorry, but the video is muted.
Sorry, Rian, can you check
the volume of the video?
I think you need to mute yourself.
[Rian] What do you want me to do?
Try to, try to play the video now?
[Video] 24 hours event of
WordPress and accessibility.
This talk is pre-recorded, because it contains...
Close, well, because we developers
learn by looking at example code,
and not by reading the specs.
I know. So, demos it is.
First, a bit about myself. And my name
is Rian Rietveld. I'm a web accessibility
expert for Level Level. That's a full service
WordPress agency in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
[unintelligible]
That's a platform of online accessibility courses.
What is ARIA? The abbreviation means "accessible
rich internet applications" - you can forget
that right away, but what you need to know is
ARIA are attributes, HTML5 attributes,
that give extra information and feedback
to assistive technology, like,
for example, screen readers.
In forms you can use it for naming form
controls, describing extra information,
and for giving feedback on dynamic changes.
I will give you examples of that in the demos
later. Before you start, you need to know: the
first rule of ARIA is don't use ARIA. There are
five rules - go and look them up when you have
time - but the first rule is the most important.
Don't use ARIA to fix meaningless and incorrect
HTML5, use the already available elements,
because then the browser and the screen reader
knows how to operate and understand them.
ARIA is about feedback not about fixing. If
you want to join me or look up the code later,
the example code is on lvl.li/aria-in-forms.
These examples contain very simplified forms,
and before you start nagging, no data is
submitted; no security checks; no translation;
I just want to show you what happens
in the front end, so you get the ARIA.
I will do the demos in Safari. It's
the browser works best together with
the VoiceOver screen reader. First, I'll talk
you through how to properly name form controls,
and we're going to look at the
accessibility tree, to show how that works.
And then we're going to look at two different
forms and add descriptions and feedback.
For all the people expecting me to show how to
build new web components from scratch with ARIA,
I'll share at the end of this talk,
my opinion about going fancy in forms.
Naming and describing form controls.
Let's do that.
Before you use ARIA, you have to have the basics
in order. The basics - the basic HTML5 - must be
correct. And then it's super important that you
give your form control a name - an accessible
name. Okay. I will show you how
that works for a screen reader.
Here we have a label, "your question,"
and a `textarea`. If you can see,
you can see the label is put above the form,
the form control - perfectly understandable.
But the label is not connected to the form
control, so a screen reader doesn't know what
to announce here. You have to connect the label to
the form control, and you can do that with a label
`for` is pointing to the `id` of the form
control. Here, the textarea has an id of
`id-textarea,` so the label has a for with
`id-textarea` - now, they are connected. I
will start the screen reader and let you hear how
important that is. Okay, let's start VoiceOver.
[VoiceOver] VoiceOver on. Safari. Naming
and describing form controls window,
toolbar. [Rian] Okay. When a screen reader
enters a form, they jump into "form mode."
That gives the user the opportunity to
type instead of operating the screen
reader. and then you can jump with tab key
from focusable element to focusable element.
So, I'll tab now in the first form
control. [VoiceOver] Leaving toolbar.
Entering Naming and Describing form
controls web content. Edit text, blank.
[Rian] About the form field
textarea, it announces "edit text, blank."
So, it is an edit text field. "Blank" is "I have
no name." If I tab to the next one, that has
a `for` and `id` connection: [VoiceOver]
your question edit text. [Rian] Then it
says "your question, edit text." And then a
screen reader user knows what to fill out.
So without a connection [VoiceOver] "edit text.
blank." With a connection? [VoiceOver] "Your
question, edit text." [Rian] Okay. That must
be in order. Uh, you have to have a name for
the form control. You can use a placeholder - is a
placeholder replacement for a label? No, it isn't,
but screen readers get smarter and smarter. In
this case, I have a textarea with a placeholder,
"your question." Let's listen how that sounds.
[VoiceOver] "Your question, edit text, blank."
"Your question." [Rian] So the screen reader
announces "your question," the placeholder,
and then tries to figure out what's the
name. Cannot come up with the name, so it
guesses, okay, the placeholder must be the name.
Not all screen readers do this, so
don't depend on this always working.
There's also another issue with this.
The placeholder text disappears when
you start typing, or when the field
is filled out with an autocomplete.
People may forget what to fill out, or need
to check if the right value is added to the
right fields with an autocomplete. Always
add a visual label to prevent errors.
So the next thing you can do with ARIA, is give
a form control a name with an `aria-label.` In
this case, textarea, aria-label "your question."
If I tab into this: [VoiceOver] Your question,
edit text. [Rian] It's announced perfectly
well, but there's no visual label.
You can have a placeholder and an aria-label:
[VoiceOver] Your question, edit text, describe
your question. [Rian] The placeholder is announced
in a different voice, "describe your question"
and aria-label is "your question,"
but still you have no visual label.
You can use an `aria-labelledby.`
Instead of the element `label,` you can
use, for example, a `div` - yay, a div.
But you have to connect both together, and
that you do with `aria-labelledby.` You give
the div an `id` and in the form control textarea
you say labeled by referring to that id.
How is that announced? [VoiceOver] Your question,
edit text. [Rian] Perfectly okay. I have no idea
why you should use a div instead of a label, but
maybe you have some obscure use case for this.
Next one. `aria-describedby,` and this is super
useful. As I told you, you jump into form mode
and then, you only get announced what is connected
to the form control. So in this case, if you have
your new password, and you have an input for your
password, and below that, the rules "please use a
password of minimal eight characters," that also
must be connected to the input field. Otherwise,
the screen reader doesn't announce it, because
the screen reader doesn't know it's connected.
And that you do with aria-describedby.
The paragraph with extra
information, you give that an
id, and in the input field, the form control,
you say aria-describedby referring to that id.
[VoiceOver] Your new password,
secure edit text with autofill menu.
Please use a password of
minimal 8 characters. [Rian]
You notice there is a time lapse between
announcing the label and announcing
the aria-describedby information,
that's a safari issues. [Unintelligible]
...which will solve it, soon but now you
first hear the label and then you hear the
added paragraph so you get all the information you
need with a form control. Next topic: icons. How
do you announce an icon? Which of course the
screen reader cannot know what's in an icon.
Well, in this form you have a label with a
search, an input field, and a button. And the
button has a class that this font also classes,
displays an icon of a search and loop. If you
can see this it's perfectly okay, but how does
this announce? [VoiceOver] Search, edit text.
[Rian] If I give the button focus I hear
nothing. So I have to give the button a name.
And that you can do with aria-label.
`aria-label="Submit search."` you put
that on the button all the content inside
the button is omitted, only the aria-label
is announced. Now, let's see what it does.
[VoiceOver] Search, edit text. [Rian] I still
hear nothing - that's weird! I put an aria-label
on it. I will mute the screen reader now.
And now, I'm going to inspect the code.
And then, I see button class
`font-awesome`, aria-label
"submit search" and then font awesome
added "aria-hidden"=true to it.
That's because font awesome thinks, "Okay, if
it's an icon, better hide it from screen readers,
because they cannot pronounce it."
But if you put a font awesome icon
directly on a focusable element, on
an element that really makes sense,
and you put an aria-hidden through that,
the screen reader doesn't know what it is.
It omits it, think, "Okay, it doesn't exist."
What's the workaround for that?
You move the class of the font awesome class out
of the button. Of, actually, you move it inside
the button, in a `span` and you give the class
to a span. So the button has the aria-label only,
and the span with the font awesome class with
the loop icon is inside, and it's in the span.
That way the label aria-label is
announced. Now, let's see what...
I'll close this. So let's move from the
start. [VoiceOver] Search, edit text.
[Rian] You hear nothing. [VoiceOver] Search, edit
text. [Rian] Scroll up a bit, you hear nothing,
and then, with the span inside the
button: [VoiceOver] Search, edit text,
submit search button. [Rian] Then the button is
announced. Okay. Keep this in mind: not every,
this aria-hidden is generated by font
awesome so, don't put it on an element
that needs to be announced, that needs to
have a label, because it will be hidden.
You can actually check what the accessible name is
for a form control by checking the accessibility
tree. Each browser generates an accessibility
tree, and screen readers, or assistive technology,
actually read that accessibility tree to know what
to announce and how to operate a form control.
I will show you in Chrome and in
Firefox. This is the one in Chrome.
I will inspect.
And here, I chose the area -
textarea without connected label.
And.. with a sec.. I can check the
tab "accessibility" and here's the accessibility
tree, and then you can check out the name.
So, when there's no connection between the
textarea and the label, it has no name. and it
cannot find any name, in, for example, the title,
the placeholder, aria-label, [unintelligible].
So this form control has no accessible name. If we
check the next one, with the for/id construction,
it has name "your question" and the name comes
from the label, and the label is "your question."
Next one: placeholder.
Name is "your question," and it gets it from the
placeholder. This is a screen reader workaround.
Aria-label.
Name is "your question" and it gets it from
the aria-label. So this is a super easy way
to actually see where the name comes
from, and if it's actually specified.
This is a placeholder and an aria-label,
the name "your question." It gets a name
from the aria-label because that's override
the placeholder, overriding the placeholder.
This is work in Firefox, as seeing. Firefox
has an inspector tab, accessibility properties.
And with Firefox you also get error warnings:
form elements must be labeled. You didn't
get a label because it has no name.
Let's pick properties for the
next one. Name is "your question."
If you have for/id, so inspect
that. Look if you have problems,
look what the accessible name is. If
you're not sure did I label this. Well,
as you noticed, naming form controls is essential
for understanding how to fill out the form when
you depend on your ears and your fingers. Check
this in your work or the plugin you use. Well,
let's do some live coding and screen reader
testing - the reason I pre-recorded this talk.
This is a simple subscribe form to our newsletter
form, with an indication, please fill out all the
fields and agree to the privacy policy. Then
name, input field, with the extra description,
"give your first and last name," then an
email, and then a checkbox "I agree with
the privacy policy," and below that, a link to
the privacy policies and the subscribe button.
Let me go through this with a
screen reader. Let's start up
VoiceOver. [VoiceOver] VoiceOver on. Safari. Let's
build a form. Window. Toolbar. [Rian] And now I
tab through the form. [VoiceOver] Name,
required, edit text, main. Email, required,
edit text. I agree with the privacy policy,
required, unchecked checkbox. Visited link,
read our privacy policy. Subscribe
button. [Rian] And now I submit the form.
And you hear nothing. If you can see, you
see a big announcement - "There are errors
in your form," and below that there are
links to the input fields with the error,
with the description of what the error is.
If I tab further, [VoiceOver] Visited link,
"back to index" content information. [Rian] Then
I go to, then the focus is on the next link.
So for a screen reader user it's so hard to
understand what's happening. I hear nothing.
This is with an ajax submit,
so it's "subscribe" submits on
an onClick event. So let's fix this.
I use as my code editor PhpStorm,
and let's look at the form.
Above the form, so it will be announced, em,
there is the title "subscribe to our newslette"r
and the information what to fill out in the form,
and there's a placeholder for the notifications.
How do you set it up? It's up to you and
your framework, and your way of working.
This is just a demo. Just, uh, right. So we need
to announce the descriptions with the input field.
So we have to give the descriptions
an `id`. It'll be connected to
the input field, aria-describedby.
Description, "give your first and
last name" will now be announced
together with the input. But I also see
a placeholder for the error messages.
Will be very useful, as the error messages are
also announced together with the input field.
So, I can use in the
aria-describedby more than one `id`,
and you can put the error first, and then the
description after that. I do the same with the
email. There is no description, so I only have
to have an aria-describedby to the error message.
That is email error.
Right. The checkbox for the terms has
a description and an error message,
so they need both input field.
This is the terms error.
And I have to get some description terms,
and I have to give the terms an id.
Right. If this is okay, everything will be
announced together now. Let's see how that
works. [VoiceOver] VoiceOver on. Safari. Let's
build a form. Window. Toolbar. Entering Let's
build a form web content. Name, edit text,
main. [Rian] Wait for it... [VoiceOver] Give
your first and last name. [Rian] Right.
[VoiceOver] Email, required, edit text.
I agree with the privacy policy,
required, unchecked, checkbox.
[Rian] That doesn't work. [VoiceOver]
VoiceOver off. [Rian] Let's see what's wrong.
Terms error, description terms, I forgot...
Welcome in a world of code editing. Repeater
again, [VoiceOver] VoiceOver on. Safari. Let's
build a form. Window Toolbar. [Rian] That's why
testing is so important. [VoiceOver] Leaving
toolbar, entering Let's build a form web content.
Name, required, edit text, main. Email, required,
edit text. I agree with the privacy
policy, required, unchecked, checkbox.
[Rian]
It's description terms, description
terms. That's why it's so important too
text. [VoiceOver] VoiceOver on. Safari.
Let's build a form window. Leaving
toolbar. Entering let's build a form web
content. Name, required, edit text, main,
give your first and last name.
Email, required, edit text.
I agree with the privacy policy,
required, unchecked checkbox,
Read our privacy policy, visited link,
read our privacy policy. Subscribe, button.
[Rian] Okay. Let's see if the error
messages are announced together within,
with, together with the input field.
[VoiceOver] Name, required edit text.
Your name is missing. Give your first and
last name. Email, required, edit text.
Your email address is missing. I agree with the
privacy policy required, unchecked, checkbox.
Please agree to the terms.
Read our privacy policy,
visited link, read our privacy policy. [Rian] So
now, everything is announced in a logical order.
What do we do about the error messages? Let's
dive in the code. Let's try `aria-live`.
I'll put an aria-life on the notification.
Live is... let's make it polite. For aria-live,
the element must already be in the DOM,
in the generated code. Because putting aria-live
on an element makes the screen reader listen
to changes inside that element. If the element
is new to the DOM, then the screen reader cannot
listen to it, so it needs to be present before
you add an aria-live on it. You have aria-live
is polite - then the screen reader waits until
all interaction is done, and aria-live is
assertive - then it announces right away.
[VoiceOver] VoiceOver on. Safari. Let's build
a form, window, toolbar, leaving toolbar,
an...email, with, one, I agree with the,
privacy, visited link, subscribe, button.
[Rian] Let's go. [VoiceOver] There are errors
in your form . Bullet. Please enter your name.
Bullet. Please enter your email address. Bullet.
Please agree to the terms. [Rian] Okay.
And if I tab now: [VoiceOver] Visited link,
back to index, content information. [Rian] There
is a disadvantage on that aria-live. It reads
everything inside. If you have like 20 errors.
that's a lot to listen to, and maybe someone
forgets it. And we also have to fix the focus
error - the focus must be on the announcement,
and people can tab through the links, and
go to the form, and fix them. So, truth...
]Roberto]
Rian, I think the video stop.
Can you check the video please?
Hi, everyone. Um, we, we got a little technical
issue with the presentation. We're working on
getting uh Rian video again, um, please,
if you have any question use the YouTube
chat, and we will be asking the
questions at the end of the talk.
Exact same for the question, Ahmed.
I mean, it have been awesome. Um,
I really loved the first talk, about, uh that -
well, Ahmed on the chat asked about my experience
at, I think Rian is back. [Rian] So, okay
should I, uh where did it go wrong?From
where? [Roberto] Do you remember, it our first
online event so it always something happened.
Can you play the video again at the point that
you... [Rian] Yeah, and the point was when it
stopped, um ,so i start with, um [Roberto]
I think it was minute 25, 27. [Rian] 25?
Um, okay. I'll run it from
here. I'll share my screen.
Sorry about this. [Roberto] Go ahead. No problem.
[Rian]
I'll put an aria-live on the notification.
[Roberto] Can you please share your screen?
[Rian] Live is... let's make it polite.
For aria-live, the element must already
be in the DOM, in the generated code.
Because putting aria-live on an element
makes the screen reader listen to changes inside
that element. If the element is new to the DOM,
then the screen reader cannot listen to it,
so it needs to be present before you add
an aria-live on it. You have aria-live
is polite - then the screen reader waits
until all interaction is done, and aria-live
is assertive - then it announces right away.
[VoiceOver] VoiceOver on. Safari.
Let's build a form, window, toolbar,
leaving toolbar, an...email, with, one, I agree
with the, privacy, visited link, subscribe,
button. [Rian] Let's go. [VoiceOver] There are
errors in your form . Bullet. Please enter your
name. Bullet. Please enter your email address.
Bullet. Please agree to the terms. [Rian] Okay.
And if I tab now: [VoiceOver] Visited link,
back to index, content information. [Rian] There
is a disadvantage on that aria-live. It reads
everything inside. If you have like 20 errors.
that's a lot to listen to, and maybe someone
forgets it. And we also have to fix the focus
error - the focus must be on the announcement,
and people can tab through the links, and go to
the form, and fix them. So, two things we need
to address. First, we address the focus issue.
I use jQuery, because I'm lazy,
But any framework, any JavaScript will do. It's
up to your own preference. I have a document,
getElementBy, notifications, focus.
But in safari that doesn't work.
You need to add something extra to your
HTML5. And it is...[unintelligible]
...and focus it by giving it `tabindex`
of minus one. Now, remove the aria-live,
because that was too much to announce. But what
do you do then with notification? [unintelligible]
Because you move the focus, people can
reach from there. Well, with aria-live,
use
role="alert." It will be announced.
So remove the focus on the h3,
"thank you for subscribing" or "there are errors
in your form." Let me add a role as "alert."
Let's see what happens. [VoiceOver]
VoiceOver on, Safari, Let's build a form,
window, toolbar. [Rian] I'll run through the
form. [VoiceOver] Reading, toolbar, email,
I agree with the, visited, subscribe, button,
there are errors in your form. [Rian] Now the
screen reader, it gives a ping - there's an
alert! And there are errors in your form.
And when I start tabbing: [VoiceOver] Visited
link. Please enter your name. List, three
items. [Rian] Because this is an unordered list,
it announces how many items there are in the list,
so you immediately also know how many
errors there are. Please enter your name,
if I enter that: [VoiceOver] Name, required, edit
text, main. [Rian] It jumps to the first field.
[VoiceOver] Name, your name is missing, give
your first and last name, [Rian] Okay, add that,
[VoiceOver] Name, edit text, typing,
R I A N. [Rian], Yeah, sorry.
[VoiceOver]
Your name is missing. Give your first and last
name, email, required edit text, your email
is h u p, hup @ h u p, hup, n l. I agree with
the privacy policy, required, unchecked checkbox,
I agree with the privacy policy, checkbox.
[Rian] Okay. [VoiceOver] Visited link,
read our privacy policy, subscribe, button. [Rian]
Okay, what happens now. [VoiceOver] Thank you for
subscribing! [Rian] Now the screen reader gets
music as feedback! This can do with some styling,
I know, but this is the principle, how it
works. In WordPress, we have a very elegant
way to add aria-live to your code. They are not
depending on elements being in the DOM or not.
It's a JavaScript method called wp dot a one one y
dot speak, and it's included into WordPress core.
There is documentation on how to do it on the
accessibility handbook of WordPress. That's on
make.wordpress.org slash accessibility slash
handbook. And there, with the development best
practices, there's a chapter about wp.a11y.speak.
Let's look at another kind of dynamic change in
form. This is a very simplified form for ordering
a t-shirt. Now on sale, get one for only 10 euros.
You can select the size and an amount, the total
price is calculated, and there's a submit button
with order. Right. How does, how does that sound?
[VoiceOver] VoiceOver on. Safari, Let's calculate,
window, toolbar. [Rian] Okay, I'll jump to
the size. [VoiceOver[ lessons test talk,
medium, size, pop up button, main. [Rian]
Okay. Select a large. [VoiceOver] Three items,
tick, medium, closing menu, large,
size, pop-up, button. [Rian] Okay,
I'll select an amount. [VoiceOver] One,
amount, pop-up, button, menu, three, two.
[Rian]
And then, if you can see, you see total price is
30 euros. [VoiceOver] Order, button. [Rian] How
can you solve this for screen reader? There are
several ways, let me talk you through them. Okay.
In this case, the total price
is added into a paragraph.
So what we can do is add aria-live, then
if it changes, it will be announced.
Let's choose "polite."
What happens. [VoiceOver] VoiceOver
on, Safari, Let's calculate, window,
toolbar. [Rian] Okay, I'll jump quickly to
"amount." [VoiceOver] Leaving toolbar, entering,
one amount, pop-up button. [Rian] I'll select two.
[VoiceOver] Menu, three items, tick. One, two,
closing menu, two, amount, pop up button,
Twenty. [Rian] It announces twenty.
Why is that? [VoiceOver[ VoiceOver off. [Rian]
If you look at aria-live=polite, it's listening
in this container: Total price, Euro ,and this
span with the amount. And it only announces
the changes within, and the only
thing that changes is the number,
so we have to tell to announce everything inside
the container. And that's with `aria-atomic`.
is true.
Then everything is announced. Let's see what
happens. [VoiceOver] VoiceOver on, safari,
Let's calculate, window, leaving toolbar, one,
amount, pop-up button. [Rian] I'll change the
amount. [VoiceOver] Menu, three item, two, three,
closing menu, three, amount, pop-up button,
Total price Euros 30. [Rian] Okay, this
makes sense. So everything is announced,
but it's not really attached to anything in
the form, so if, when, someone changes things,
and goes over the form, the information is not
repeated - only on when the change happens. Now
we saw several ways to solve this. You can add
an aria-describedby to the amount, pointing to
the total price, so, if someone focuses the
amount, also the total price is announced.
Um, think about this, What will be the best way
for your use case? Is it the best way to edit to
your order button? It's an aria-label? Personally,
I think in this case you don't need ARIA at all.
What about making it a read-only
field. Solving it with HTML.
A label for total with the total price.
And then you have an input field.
The id is total, and it's read only,
and has an initial value of 10. Right. In your
use case, or form, this may be far more complex,
but I just want to show you the basics. So you
can think about if this way may be better for you.
How does this work? There's a field added,
"total price" and initial value of 10.
Let's listen to the screen reader. [VoiceOver]
VoiceOver on, Safari, Let's calculate, window,
toolbar, leaving toolbar, entering,
Let's calculate web content,
medium, size, pop up button, main, one, amount,
pop-up button, menu, three it..., two, closing
menu, two, amount, pop-up button, twenty, contents
selected, total price, text, order, button. [Rian]
So now the price is always announced even if it's
the initial price. In a normal HTML5 form field.
Think about this. I hope these demos were useful
for you to get a better idea how aria works,
and how you can use it, and test
for it. Please try this at home.
And now iId like to answer a question I
get a lot from developers and designers:
Can I use "select2." The short answer is no.
And I will explain to you why. This is the
demo page of select2. It's on select2.org slash
getting dash started slash basic dash usage.
Here you have first a normal select, and
after that what you can turn it into.
Now this normal select doesn't have a label.
I will tell you this because we're going to
read through this with the screen reader. So
this should have a label like "select a state"
but it doesn't. Okay. And
then there's an example code,
an example with a search box, and you can
select a state, with your mouse if you want to,
and if you search for new, you
get all the states with the word,
I will start with the screen reader.
[VoiceOver[ VoiceOver on. Safari,
Basic usage vertical lines Select2:
the jquery replacement for
select boxes, window, toolbar.
[Rian] I will tab to the first select
box. [VoiceOver] Leaving toolbar,
link, getting started, link, anchor link for:
single select boxes. [Rian] Okay, here it
goes. [VoiceOver] Alaska, pop-up button. [Rian]
Okay, it's a pop-up button, it's called Alaska,
there's no label, whatever. If I use the arrow
key, I can go through the options. [VoiceOver]
Menu 55 items, tick, Alaska, Hawaii, Pacific
Time Zone, California, Nevada, Oregon, Washington
[Rian] Sometimes a little [VoiceOver]
Arizona [Rian], sometimes Safari a
bit of hesitates, [VoiceOver]
Arizona, Idaho. [Rian] Okay.
If Safari were to work properly then everything
is announced. Also the date, uh, section
headings. This is regular HTML5. Okay, I'll
select Idaho. [VoiceOver] Closing menu, Idaho,
pop up button. [Rian] Now I go to the example.
[VoiceOver] Alaska. Alaska, menu pop-up, combo
box. [Rian] Okay. Normally, I open this with the
arrow down. [VoiceOver] left arrow select class
equals js example basic single [Rian] No, that
doesn't work. It jumps out of it. So I move up
again. [VoiceOver] Idaho, pop up, Alaska, Alaska,
menu pop up, menu pop up, combo box. [Rian] I
press enter. [VoiceOver] Search text field blank.
[Rian] Okay. The search text field without label.
Um, okay, I will want to see if I can look
up "new" again. [VoiceOver] n e w. New.
[Rian] Gives no feedback
on what's happening below.
So if I want to select something, maybe
I'll arrow down and I can select it.
I can select it, but I hear nothing.
And there's, now I have no idea to get out
of this, then to select something, okay,
return. [VoiceOver] New Mexico, New Mexico, menu
pop-up, menu pop-up, combo box. [Rian] So this
doesn't work well. You get not the proper feedback
for a screen reader about what you search for,
how to select it, what the select options are. I
hope you get the point. If you create something
like this, you have to test it with all
kinds of different devices. User test.
Because select2 doesn't work for everyone, and
you want people to contact you, order with you,
subscribe to your newsletter. Make that as easy
as possible. Make that as predictable as possible.
I want to quote Hayden Pickering: "People
don't want to be delighted. They want to do
what they came for, and then
get on with their lives."
That doesn't mean that your form needs to be
ugly. It can be pretty, and also usable for as
many people as possible, and that's the extra
challenge. Discuss this with your designer.
I'll end my ranting here.
If you want to learn more about how to
create and code accessible web projects,
I'd highly recommend you taking a course at
the a11y collective at a11y-collective.com.
My colleagues and I created courses for everyone
involved in the web project. Business owners,
stakeholders, project managers, content
managers, designers, and, of course, developers.
The course about accessible code will launch very
soon, but to start there's also a basic course,
where you can get a broad overview
of what accessibility actually is.
If you're not sure, take the free tryout course
to get an impression of what the courses are like.
I hope you got an idea on how ARIA can make a
form understandable and give proper feedback.
If you depend on a plugin for your forms, check
if the plugin uses ARIA to describe and give
feedback. If labels are properly connected to the
form controls, now you know where to look out for.
Research this before you implement a plugin
on your production website. You want everyone
to be able to understand your form, of course.
Well, I hope I gave you a lot of homework, and
I hope you got a better understanding on how
people use the web and your forms in a different
way. Thank you for listening, please be safe.
[Roberto] Awesome! Um, thank you, very much
Rian, for the talk. [Rian]
Sorry, for taking so much time!
[Roberto] But don't, don't worry about it. I
mean, thank you very, very much. We don't have
time for questions, but everybody, the questions
are going to be on the website, and you can answer
the, the questions over there. Thank you very
much for your time, and I mean, that's the,
the last talk that I will be hosting.
Um, the, the next hosting will be Ahmed.
Don't forget to attend the next talk: Your CMS
is an Accessible Assitant, uh by, [Rian] Yeah,
I really would recommend your next talk, that
will be an awesome talk, yeah. [Roberto] Okay, it
will be eight utc time, and thank you very much,
Have a good day - see you in a bit. [Rian] Bye.